Calfing our way from the market open in
mainland [music] China and here in Hong
Kong. You're watching the China show. We
are live at the city's inaugural women
chief executive summit. I'm Ivon man.
>> Yep, that's happening now. A bit of a
flashback there from last week. I'm
David and Glass. Good Monday morning to
all of you. Uh [music] to continue that
theme from last week, the White House
says China will suspend some rare earth
export controls and drop investigations
targeting [music] US companies in the
chip supply chain. Now, we're looking at
gold today, dipping ever so slightly uh
back below the 4,000 level here after
China's [music] move to end this
long-standing tax rebate for some
retailers. Oil on the on the other hand
is rising after OPC plus announcing
[music] plans to pause output hikes
going into next year. And also ahead,
struggling Hong Kong developer New World
set to issue almost $2 billion in new
securities [music] and notes as it seeks
to improve its debt profile and a lot of
big interviews coming up here as Hong
Kong kicks off an extremely [music] busy
week of conferences. Do not miss our
exclusives coming up with top executives
at HKX, the UBS Global Wealth
Management, and also Prima Vera Capital.
Good Monday, [music] morning. Thank you
for joining us. Hope you all had a
restful uh weekend. [music]
is uh the story I think the main story
going into the weekend certainly as long
as the plot lines are concerned was
really the strength in the US dollar
which in a moment you'll really see how
that's playing out as far as exchange
rates go equity markets we don't have
Japan today so volumes will be on the
lighter side of things the markets that
are trading though are trading to the
upside index is a very good example of
that S&P futures seeing some decent
upside not normally seen for this time
of the session here we talked about gold
we'll get into the gold story in a
moment uh dollar yen 154 euro However,
we have a rate decision coming through
this week out of the Bank of England.
Have a look at that. Aussie dollar on
your screens as well. Yeah. So, the
strength in the US dollar did push
dollar yen back above 154. We'll talk
about an iteration of that as far as the
Chinese exchange rate is concerned, give
or take. That's about the lowest. We're
back to Feb levels there on dollar yen.
Cosby index, you have Taiwan, you have
Singapore coming online along with
Malaysia. Uh equity markets, the
snapshot is this mostly upside. A lot of
that right now is down to what's
happening in Korea. There's a China
angle to what's happening there, which
we'll get to in a moment given of course
the fresh uh connection as far as
relations between the two economies are
concerned. The approach of the open,
just [music] keep in mind the backdrop
here is a very big drop on Friday in
Chinese tech and it's looking like we're
going to be offsetting some of that
going into today. 180 is a level to
watch. We dip below that on the 10-year
yield and of course as the exchange rate
goes, we're back above 712. There's a
technical level to watch. More on that
in a moment. Ivonne, let me bring you
back in.
>> Yeah, [music] it's getting loud here,
Dave, where we are live here at the Hong
Kong Exchange, of course, for the
inaugural [music] WCE. You're just about
to see. I think Paul Chan, financial
secretary, is making it on stage here as
we kick off this event. Certainly, it's
a busy one for Hong Kong. She say I
wouldn't miss it, right? I [music] made
a big big bash dash from South Korea
back to Hong Kong here just given the
events that are happening out today.
[music] Right. So we talk about the
women's chief executive summit. We have
Hong Kong fintech week that's kicking
[music] off as well. Let's not forget
HKMA. We're going to be live there as
well this whole week. So certainly
that's going to be a big thing to watch
here. The uh investment leaders summit
there as well. So we're be talking to a
lot a lot of people. And here when it
comes to WCE there's a great survey that
came out right breaking the glass
ceiling. You're talking about 45% of the
top financial sector roles actually go
to women here in the city. And that
certainly is a breakthrough for some of
the women that we're about to talk to.
The co-organizers of this event, Hong
Kong Exchanges Bonnie Chan as well as
UBS's Amy Low is going to be joining us
in the next two hours to talk about this
event. And certainly it's not just that.
We're talking about Hong Kong Fintech
Week. Our very young Annabelle Jewelers
is covering that from the convention
center. Bell, what's going on? this year
is leading in.
>> Yeah, that's right. I mean, you're
saying it's getting noisy there. It's
just starting to fill in as well
because, as you said, this is a major
week for events here in Hong Kong. It's
actually the 10th anniversary of the
Hong Kong fintech week as well. So, Hong
Kong, of course, really making that push
uh to be to be one of the global hubs
for web 3 and crypto initiatives. But
again, here today, we've got a very big
interview lineup coming up. So, we're
going to be speaking with Fred Hoo, for
instance, from Primava Capital. He's
coming by in the next hour to talk about
the outlook for PE, but also the outlook
for US China relations. That's a big
focus. And then just ahead as well,
we're going to be speaking with Dwayang
from Chiming Ventures. And that is of
course a VC fund, US dollar denominated,
but looking to raise millions and
million dollars of capital right now.
So, lots of big interviews ahead. These
are exclusive, but you can see there
Fred who joining us in the next hour.
>> Fantastic team. We'll be with you guys
shortly once we have those interviews
coming online. And of course, we have
the team on the ground. Busy, extremely
jam-packed week as far as Juan Frances
go here uh in Hong Kong. Bell there of
course at Fintech week. And in case
you're wondering, Ivan is of course
she's at the exchange as well there for
some very big interviews coming up. In
the meantime though, let's get to the
latest here as far as news goes. It's
been obviously we're coming off a very
an extremely manic week in South Korea
going through the weekend. The dust has
settled. We now have more information
what was agreed on, what wasn't. The
White House says, here's the thing, uh,
that China will effectively suspend the
implementation of additional export
controls on rare earth metals and also
terminate these investigations targeting
US companies in the semiconductor supply
chain. But Treasury Secretary Scott
Besset cautions that allies will still
need to [snorts] be wary
have cornered the market and
unfortunately at times they prove to be
unreliable partners. I think and I hope
after the agreement and the goodwill
between President Xi and President Trump
in Korea that we can depend on them to
be more reliable partners and the rest
of the world can depend on them. But you
know we can't take that chance. We don't
want to decouple with China but we're
going to have to derisk.
>> Right. Minlow our China correspondent is
here with us on sets. We're getting more
details on what the US and China had
agreed upon. What else do we know from
this? There's a fact sheet I think
that's out out of the White House. Yeah.
>> Yeah. The US White House has released a
fact sheet of what was agreed upon. And
bear in mind, we only have the US
version of this. The Chinese side hasn't
yet released their version. But
according to the US, China is going to
suspend these export controls on things
like rare earths, antimony, graphite,
gallium, geranium. Uh and it's going to
undo the measures that were imposed not
just in October this year, but also
April of this year and October of 2022.
So that's a massive victory for US
national security. And aside from that,
China is also going to end
investigations into US chips companies,
including the likes of Qualcomm, uh,
Nvidia, for example, suspending some of
those counter measures that they have
imposed, both tariffs and non-tariff
measures since March 4th. And this means
those tariffs on US agricultural goods
are going to be lifted. They're stemming
the flow of fentinel into the US in
exchange for a lowering of the fentinel
related tariffs by 10% uh purchasing
purchase commitments on soybeans 12
million metric tonses this year 25
million metric tons for the next 3
years. What are they getting in an
exchange? The US is agreeing to suspend
that 50% rule, meaning they're going to
roll back the expansion of the rules
around the entity list that had applied
to the affiliates of companies at least
50% owned by companies on the entity
list. Uh and aside from that extension
of that trade truce uh for another year.
So what else is not discussed is the Tik
Tok deal, right? The US has a plan to
divest that. We haven't gotten a formal
approval from Beijing yet. And of
course, Taiwan, Ukraine war, purchases
of Russian oil, that wasn't really
discussed at the trade talks.
>> Minman, thank you so much for a wrap of
what was discussed, agreed on, and of
course, some of the items that some
people say were on the table, but uh
obviously on the back side of that, not
really. Uh maybe we'll get to that
another time. Uh right. Okay, let's
bring in our first guest on the show
today. Chin Hua University director and
former PVOC adviser David Daquay Lee. He
joins us from Beijing. Uh Prof.
Professor Professor Lee, thank you so
much for joining us. What a time to be
speaking with you following that
historic meeting uh last week between
the two presidents. Just give us your
top takeaway. What do you think was how
big of a success was it in your in your
opinion?
I think among all the meetings between
the two leaders, this one uh is perhaps
the most important uh it really
historical why I think fundamentally the
most important progress for both sides
is for the US to recognize China as
equal peer okay as a equal partner to to
talk about things. So in fact President
Trump used the phrase of G2 which was
used by President Obama many years ago.
Uh so this is a big big progress that
means two implications. Okay. Number one
uh there will be a bigger talks uh not
only on trade but also on security
issues on Ukraine on Tai Taiwan streets
on South China Sea and Middle East
between the two countries. And number
two trade issues financial issues will
be discussed. And in this big picture
view, trade issues and the financial
issues, technological issues are frankly
speaking small potatoes and they will be
resolved. So there is a sense of
enthusiasm among uh my my colleagues in
Beijing. In fact, in a formal dinner
gathering, uh that's the um that's the
mood of top thinkers in China.
Professor,
fantastic for laying out the context for
us there. The some of the I guess just
to borrow maybe the analogy you used.
Most of the lowhanging fruit were
discussed the small potatoes as you were
pointing out. The next 12 months seems
to be the sky's perhaps the limit for
what they could be seeing progress on.
Talk to us about those bigger items.
What sort of progress do you think we
should realistically expect when it
comes to the likes of Ukraine for
example or Taiwan?
>> Well, on the issue of Taiwan streets,
this is by far the most important issue
or biggest concern of the Chinese side.
So uh I think is it is not it is not
unrealistic that under President Trump
the US administration and as well as the
you the whole US capital hail make some
new rhetoric about the Taiwan accession
s uh s succession issue which is the big
concern of the Beijing side and in
return the Beijing side will cooperate
with the US on the issues of Ukraine
will agree to be more proactive in
pushing Russia for example to the
negotiation table and on Middle East the
China will can play and will play a
bigger role. So I think these are are
the big issues and on trade and finance
the Chinese side can agree to buy right
away massive amount of American
agricultural products and crude oil and
also I I strongly believe China can even
give give zero type of rates on a
Detroit manufactured automobile. Why
not? Why not? China is ready for ready
for that. That way the President Trump
can claim victory domestically before
the midterm. So it's really a a very
good meeting.
>> David, you you highlight a very sort of
optimistic sort of path forward for the
two. I I I wanted to ask you about the
fact that there was no mention of these
sort of Nvidia black wheel chips. There
were there was a lot of speculation
leading up to this trip that that Trump
was going to bring this up to Xi
Jinping.
when it comes to tech supremacy and the
like, do you think one year is enough
for China to reduce that chokeold it has
on on US semiconductors? And at the same
time, can it actually be quicker than
the US breaking its dependency on China
rare earths?
>> Well, the rare earth issue is actually
tricky. It's more than technological
issue. It's not economic issue. That is
whether uh the new startups, right? the
startups uh in in manufacturing uh
distilling rare earth in the US or other
countries will be economically
profitable until you see that it's hard
to realistic realistically find um uh
replacement of Chinese export of rare
earth the computer chip issue I would
give ch the Chinese at five years if the
current situation continues if the US
continues to uh restrict its export of
computer chips to China. I would say in
five years, I mean I I I believe I'm a
bit um conservative on this on my
estimates. Five years, China will do it
because look at it. The computer chips
is uh based upon a technology which is
which is not progressing very fast. Two
nanometer perhaps is the limit of the
computer uh chip production. That's the
limit. Okay. So, China is chasing a
fixed target rather than on AI. Uh AI is
a moving target. So, I am um I am
optimistic. The US side uh starting with
um Jensen Huang and Nvidia top
executives know this very well. So, the
ch the best strategy for the US side is
to relax is treat export of computer
chips. therefore slowing down slowing
down the incentives lowering the
incentives and therefore slowing down
the Chinese pace of catching up.
>> Yeah. And it it goes with what we heard
in that 14 five-year plan, David, of of
really trying to create China into this
techdriven industrial superpower. I I
wonder, you know, that does come at a
cost, right? that you know the money
that has been spent on subsidies and the
like to really building that
self-sufficiency within the tech sector
comes at a cost of of boosting
consumption for example do you think at
some point the economy is going to have
to pivot towards boosting consumption
once again
>> financial secretary
>> absolutely okay I I think right now as
it is the top priority of top decision
makers in China is the technological
self-sufficiency okay that's comes to
the area of security but Don't forget
the biggest economic security is uh
sustainable and reasonably fast pace of
economic growth because without
reasonably fast pace of economic growth
the issue of youth unemployment uh the
uh unemployment the the issue of public
finance the issue of um uh increasing
continued increase of disposable income
and therefore happiness of the
population will not will be built on
sand. So therefore I think before too
long um Chinese policies will will be uh
jacked up towards boosting domestic
consumption and talking about domestic
consumption there millions of ways to do
it. Economists like myself have been
busy proposing various plans and I we
are confident that down the road all
these proposals will be implemented one
way or the other.
>> Okay. Well, the with with this largely
not completely out of the way. So, I'm
talking about of course the negotiations
with the US side. David, I wonder then
what are the other major issues, foreign
or domestic, economic or otherwise, that
you think leadership now has more time
uh to focus on? What are the big issues
uh confronting China these days?
Well, in my mind, the biggest issue
which is not has not been widely
recognized in the amount of top circle I
think they will okay is uh by far the
local public debt local government debt
which is huge by um international
standard which is around 100% of GDP.
However, if you put local government
debt in the context of the Cho Chinese
economy, considering that the the
economy has a super high savings rates
and also the central government has very
little amount of debt uh under its belt
only no more than 30% of GDP and also
considering that the central government
has huge amount of financially valuable
assets in the shares of the largest
commercial banks and the mobile phone
service providers and also
conglomerates. So the issue of local
government debt can be easily dealt
with. I've been proposing the idea of of
in increasing the issuance of central
government debt in the amount of uh 50%
of GDP and used the money of the debt
issuance to swap out local debt and
therefore giving local governments more
life giving them less burden of debt.
Therefore they can spend more. They can
pay their delayed payments to
construction companies to their
employees and therefore the whole
economy will be on a higher uh on a
higher higher higher pay higher model of
economic growth. By the way, if you look
at the Chinese statistics very
carefully, we are running the Chinese
economies are only running at 4.1% a
nominal GDP rates and this rate should
be 7% easily 7% considering taking into
account of inflation. The US nominal GDP
rates easily is going around 5%. So it
is nominal GDP growing growth rate which
is affecting everybody's life. It is not
real GDP growth rate. Let's keep in
mind.
>> We'll we'll do sir. Thank you so much
for the insights. We covered pretty much
everything. Uh David Lee Quay there in
Beijing, Chin Hua University director
and former adviser to the PBOC. Uh thank
you so much for the time. Get us warmed
up this Monday. Very very quickly before
we just go into a very short break, the
reference rate of the day, you're
looking at a currency right now on your
screens. Uh 70867.
That's still a fairly strong uh midpoint
coming out of the PBU. Just keep in
mind, just keep in mind that we're
coming off three days of relatively
strong uh moves in the US dollar. We're
going into today hitting our head on the
50-day moving average as far as dollar
China is concerned. So, this might pull
us back a little bit and give us a
little bit more breathing room from from
that edge. Right, cutting out to the
open of trade. Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, just over 10 [music]
minutes away, futures are pointing
slightly to the upside. Last we checked,
this is the China show.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. We're looking at
commodities markets early this Monday.
So, we talked about gold and the tax
break there and the news and the tax
break in China. Oil, of course, in OPEC
plus. Uh, in fact, let's bring in our
oil reporter Nicholas Lua from Singapore
for us to talk us through the logic
behind the halt from OPEC. Nicholas,
>> good morning. So, the short version
really is that OPEC is preserving its
optionality as it moves into the end of
the year and the start of next year. As
it is, we've already added 137 barrels
per day for the past two months and for
the oncoming month in December. So
there's a lot of supply at a time when
demand is uncertain and there's plenty
of supply. And so that's the uncertainty
we're facing moving into next year. This
is a way for OPEC to keep its options
open as it navigates the uncertainty of
Russian sanctions and all the other wild
cards that could potentially hit all
markets.
>> All right. Very quickly, what does this
mean for this this uh struggle for
market share?
struggle for market share.
>> So as you know David, OPEC plus has said
that it's fighting for market share and
that's the logic governing its past uh
big uh supply hikes. But at the same
time I think it's clear that not
everyone has barrels to add. So Saudi
Arabia still has barrels left to add,
but its co-leader Russia now a lot of
its supply has been affected by all the
Ukrainian drone strikes. And so that
picture is a little uncertain. They're
not giving up the fight
the fight. They're just being more
cautious as we move into a period of
lower demand. That's what the first
quarter is traditionally known for.
>> Nicholas Lua, thank you so much. A wrap
of OPEC then oil as we get started as
far as this week is concerned. We're
looking at futures right now. 26,000 on
the hingen index. [music] The first
iteration of the week. Plenty more
ahead. This is the China show.
[music]
Welcome back. Good morning. So, we you
guys like nice round numbers, right? So,
1.8% 8% is the level that we we dip
below that of the 10-year yields. Uh
following that rally, of course, that's
that's taking [music] place. C CG C C C
C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C CGB
market new world out with some issuance
here maybe the rejigging of the maturity
of its debt profile we have massive
events [music] of course this week as we
talked about uh we had the rating dog
PMI survey that's coming out in [music]
about 20 minutes or so and within the
sectors to watch today casinos are doing
well in the pre-market good data coming
through the opposite there [music] are
the likes of gold stocks at Zin mining
chaook names tied [music] to the gold
story uh seeing some pressure early
after China of course ending that gold
tax break and and this pullback we're
seeing in in gold prices. Uh trend line
support [music] is in focus following
that drop and it's looking like we're
going to get a bounce from that level
today. This is the [music] China show.
Good Monday morning. Welcome back.
You're watching the China show. In case
you missed that uh one of her first
interviews [music] of the day with
Professor Lee Quay out of Beijing,
interesting [music] takeaway from him.
He said the most important
uh achievement or milestone [music] from
the we from the meeting last week
between the two presidents was that now
it it seems when you look at China and
[music] the US on equal footing, right?
President Trump G2. So it does open up
the door he says uh for the two sides to
discuss the bigger issues Ukraine
[music] Taiwan over the next 12 months
and watch those two things over the next
12 months apart from obviously other
things of you [music] know taking the
barriers down to trade and access to key
markets and key technologies going into
the open today. We'll replay part of
that interview later on if we do have
some time [music] going into the open
today. Uh it's worth pointing out that
it's going to be an extremely busy again
conference week. Uh Ivonne is at the
exchange for us for an event. It's Hong
Kong Fintech Week. Uh tomorrow Ivon and
my and myself will be at the Hong Kong
Monetary Authorities big event at the
newly crowned best hotel in the world
out of 22 properties. Okay, that's the
Rosewood. Uh we're looking at the CSI
300 as you can see flat at the start of
trade. Have a look at Hong Kong please
if we can. And just keep in mind right a
very big decline going into uh the
weekend here. We are getting somewhat of
a bounce, not completely to offset what
we did get on Friday, half of 1%. Uh
most of the uh big tech plays are moving
toward the upside here. Xiaomi is
getting a bit of upside at 2% in case
you missed it. Uh lights uh bit of
banter between uh President Xi and of
course President Lee in Korea giving him
of course a Xiaomi phone. Uh you can
read about that on the internet uh if
you do have access. Okay. Um let's have
a look at where we are as far as casinos
go. So back to data, really good numbers
coming out of Macau as you can see
substantial gains uh out of the casino
place right now going into the first
session of the week. Uh gold plays in
focus. Uh you had the tax break being
ended that rebate of course and we are
getting a decline across gold spot in
futures and equity market iterations of
that coming up on your screens very very
shortly including some of the ETFs uh
traded uh in the onore market. So last
we checked gold was right below the
4,000 handle as expected. We are getting
a pullback across some of the code
related names there. Uh very quickly we
look at uh this trading debut today
100%. Last I checked
98%. What is it doing now? Oh, okay. I'm
sorry. Short change to that. 106%
uh for mining lamp tech. This is a
trading debut of course here in Hong
Kong today. And this really ushers in
almost a curtain razor. Let me just pull
that back a little bit. As far as the
big week of listings, we talked about
conferences, listings here uh is
concerned. Yeah, this massive one taking
place on Wednesday and of course uh
November uh six as well as a big day to
watch that Thursday where you have Pony
AI and we ride. You have pricing
tomorrow for those two and of course the
trading debut itself uh coming through
on Thursday. And uh just finally just a
quick glance at really how blockbuster
this this year has really been. Check
out these numbers. Nearly 80 listings.
Uh obviously going to get more as the as
we enter the last two months of the
year. Uh nearly 30 billion in in funds
raised and turnover has picked up and a
lot of that by the way has come down in
the form of the stock connect 260
billion the ton dollar. So it's quite a
quite a significant milestone Ivon for
the HKX. I wonder what they say about
this. Ivon
>> 70%.
>> Yeah. They are also one of the
co-organizers of the an Oregon woman
chief executive summit that is underway
here in Hong Kong. And I'm pleased to
bring in Bonnie Latan here, Hong Kong
Exchange CEO. As we're talking about
right, nearly 28 billion in terms of
total proceeds this year. That's on
track for one of the best years we've
seen since 2021 for the city. Bonnie,
300 sort of IPOs in the pipeline right
now.
>> How many more than 300? We also have the
conf confidential filing which is not
covered by that number yet.
>> How are you dealing with the amount of
paperwork? I'm guessing do you have
enough manpower right now dealing with
these applications?
>> We do. In fact, you know, I'm quite
pleased and you know, certainly I I
thank my team um for keeping up that
spirit and the momentum. Um we are
increasingly trying to find ways to um
empower the team with technology. Um and
in fact, you know, we we have been
exploring, for example, the use of AI to
help speed things up. Um but so far, I
think, you know, the the momentum has
been great. Uh and um we are now at over
80 completed IPOs. Uh and we're in the
early uh in early November. So, let's
see what number we can wrap up the year
with.
>> That's a lot of gong ceremonies
obviously this year, Bonnie, for you.
But when it comes to, you know, once we
get another, you know, wave of these
IPOs, again, we're talking about 300 in
the pipeline. Are you concerned that a
big chunk of that money is going to be
taken away from the equity market?
>> Sorry.
>> Are you concerned that the liquidity
issue that there be a big chunk of money
that's being taken away from the equity
market?
>> I not not at all. In fact, uh what is
really pleasing this year, it's a um
return of international investors. So if
I look at the IPOs which have been done
to date, many deals we are seeing over
half and in fact some deals are even
close to the 70 80% mark um representing
international investors returning to the
Hong Kong IPO market in earnest. So um
so long, you know, I'm I'm personally
very confident that so long as we're
able to present investors around the
world with the right opportunities, the
money will come. Yeah. I I mean I just
came back from South Korea. you just
came back from the Saudis. So certainly
we have a lot of takeaways from both
these trips but the fact that the US and
China have reached a truce for one year.
>> What does that mean for Hong Kong in
terms OF THE OUTLOOK NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK IF you dial the clock back
three weeks ago, people were actually
worried that maybe the leaders are not
going to meet at all. Uh which obviously
turn out be to be not the case. And and
I guess you know um what I focus on at
HKU [applause] to make sure that
regardless of market conditions uh and
you know these trade talks and you know
the geopolitical situation we provide
the investors around the world with a
resilient market an orderly market that
they can trade in and out. I think you
know with the talks continuing you know
I mean it's a truce for now like you
said um things will pick up again. Um
hopefully uh we uh continue to to have
that you know very trusted market so
that regardless of how investors want to
take that position they can trade. I
think at the the height of things were
quite tense. There was this threat of
Chinese companies being delisted in the
US and maybe people were hoping that
Hong Kong would be that place that they
could seek some refuge and the like.
there was a bit of pressure earlier on
this year about easing these so-called
dual class shares and [clears throat]
that the need to kind of prioritize
that. Is there less of a need and
urgency now given now that we're in a
truce?
>> Uh well, I think the way you put it, the
focus seem to be on the push factor,
right? Because you know, companies are
worried about the listing risk. I tend
to focus on the pull factors you know
the attraction that Hong Kong is capable
of providing which is first of all right
the access to global capital but more
importantly and that's our secret weapon
as you know is the connect franchise
whereby companies listed on our exchange
is capable to tap the very strong
southbound flow of capital from the
Chinese mainland that sets us apart from
other exchanges so I think you know and
and you have seen Obviously the
southbound volume um since the beginning
of the year has stayed very very strong
and so I would say that you know
regardless of the geopolitical situation
um and whether or not these threats are
real or not uh I I do trust that you
know the Hong Kong is able to present a
set of pull factors whereby companies
will really see the merit of getting a
listing on the Hong Kong market.
>> Are companies willing to alter their
company structures just to fit the
city's limits though? Are you saying
that?
>> Well, I guess you know for that
particular uh issue, companies will have
to uh think about their own needs. Um
and and frankly for corporate governance
matters, shareholders have a say, right?
U whether or not they're willing to
accept a particular kind of company
structure or whether they would like to
see um you know more um you know a
company where you know shareholders have
a more equitable say. uh I think it is
for the investors and the companies
involved to decide for themselves. Now
on our part uh we have introduced
weighted voting rights since 2018 uh
which is now 7 years ago. Uh I guess you
know through our interaction with a lot
of market participants. We do believe
that maybe that's something that we can
revisit and see how you know we can um
continue to improve our listing regime
just like how we have done in other
areas.
>> Okay. So there are conversations now in
terms of possibly reviewing this or I
think you know early stages right now.
>> Yeah we I think over the past when we um
uh engaged the market on various topics
this is one area where um uh they have
you know mentioned that you know they
would like to see perhaps some
revisiting
>> there there's also the latest rules in
IPO a lotment mechanism. Yeah. which
which some had said it it makes it only
almost almost impossible for retail
investors to get a share of these IPOs
and and really the dry sort of supply
kicks these IPO prices quite high as
well and I think the SFC has talked
about we need to address this. How are
you looking at this sort of issue?
>> The purpose of uh that exercise or you
know uh the revision to that rule was
really to uh come up with what we
believe a better price discovery
mechanism. Now we know that uh in an IPO
in the context of an IPO retail
investors are mostly price takers and we
really wanted to um give the issuers uh
who are listing their company as well as
institutional investors a stronger uh
bargaining power so that you know
through that that uh bargaining
hopefully we will come out with a better
price which will be you know longerterm
sustainable. Now uh obviously very
difficult to draw sort of a co causal
relationship between the two but I would
say since the introduction of the new
allocation rules uh the aftermarket
performance of the IPOs have actually
fared quite well. So we will continue to
monitor um but I would say that um at
least for now what we set out to do we
believe we have achieved.
>> Okay. Of course this is the inaugural
woman chief executive. We can't leave
without asking you a question about
diversity and this sort of survey that
came out where 45% of top financial
sector roles go to women here in the
city. That's quite a milestone in
itself. What do you think is still
needed to do? What's your next sort of
aim
>> when it comes to diversity? I think you
know you know as a member of the WCA we
are I'm extremely pleased to see the
results of the report. Uh it is a very
good set of data. Uh and I think in Hong
Kong, you know, there is still a lot to
do. Um as you know, HKEX is one of the
first exchanges, global exchanges around
the world to introduce a mandatory uh
ban to single gender. That was two years
ago. And um so, you know, I'm very
pleased at the beginning of the journey,
we still have 800 out of 2,600 listed
companies with a single gender board.
Now, that's basically eradicated. Uh
what I think we still need to do more is
to build the pipeline, the female
directorship pipeline. Uh occasionally I
hear that oh you know people um you
mentioned that you know when they go out
and try to you know fill board seats
with women um they're not seeing that
you know churn in in in sort of great
momentum yet. But I'm confident as we
continue to bring more directors more
female directors uh into listed company
boards the churn will begin. And I think
that is um another big step forward in
terms of promoting gender diversity in
Hong Kong.
>> It's great to have you as always. Money
Chan there, Hong Kong Exchange CEO,
joining us here at the Hong Kong
Exchange. Of course, as we've been
talking about, we're going to have more
executives from the Women Chief
Executive Summit in Hong Kong. Later on
the show, we speak exclusively with the
boss of UBS's Hong Kong and the bank's
global wealth management Asia chair Amy
Lo. She's also one of the co-organizers
of the event. Dave,
>> yeah, absolutely. Stay tuned for that
and of course the conversation Sivon has
there at the event. Now speaking of let
me just borrow that phonetic low uh and
take a look at what's happening in the
Philippines. We're reaching the lowest
level here going back to 2022 uh on the
Philippine composite. We're now well
Philippine stock exchange index there.
So we're down the most since liberation
week first week of a April and we are
extremely close I'll show you a chart in
a moment here. extremely close to
falling to the lowest levels last seen
during the pandemic. Big miners and some
of the big financials leading these
declines. Just about everything is down
with the exception of uh less than a
handful of of names uh uh in Manila. And
here's the chart for you guys. Yellow
line is the one you want to watch.
That's the trough in 2022. As you can
see, we're very close to taking out I
think that was September of 2022. Below
that, we're back to levels last seen
during 2020 during the pandemic. Plenty
more ahead. This is the China Show.
All right, welcome back. You're watching
the China Show. So, the conversations
around So, here's the thing. Here's the
thing. the the dollar was not supposed
to be one of the main events last week.
It then became one of the key components
of this market following the repricing.
You had a Fed decision. You had the
press briefing from Jay Powell who
effectively said December is far from a
from a done deal. bond markets had to
repric that the dollar is on three days
of fairly decent strength and the
probability for December has gone from
over 100% so that's more than a 25 and
then some more down to about 65 to
currently 70% based on I think this is
Fed fund futures not swaps there we go
so how do we look at this given the the
data that we have or the lack of it if
you think about it that way following
also the conversations we had last week
between the US and China and how this
opens up maybe removes some [snorts] a
level or two of uncertainty given the
economic outlook. Joining us here on
sets, Randy Crosner, professor of
economics at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business. You might also
know him from his previous time at the
Fed. Nice to see you. Good morning.
>> Great to be back.
>> So, let's start let's start with the
Fed. Um
the lack of data, official data, there's
a shutdown that's taking place. I wonder
how that affects decision-m dynamics
given just just given the uncertainty
out there.
>> Yeah, it makes it much more difficult to
sort of come to consensus because the
data aren't there. So people can say
well you know I think the trend from
what we saw a few months ago is still
continuing let's say like weakening of
the labor market or people could say no
no I'm seeing anecdotes it's saying that
that it's not. So it's much more
difficult unfortunately what this means
is they have to kind of go by vibe
rather than data. You know, they used to
they always used to talk about being
data dependent. Now they're kind of vibe
dependent,
>> right? Well, that that applies more to
dating that it does really monetary
policy decisions if you think about it
when you try to look for the vibe. So,
what do you think happens in December?
Is the is the is the best course of
action to do nothing or is an insurance
cut perhaps more a wiser option?
>> Well, hopefully we'll get some data by
then. I really hope that we might be
able to uh they should be able to
backfill in things like the uh the
employment numbers, right? uh at least
some of the employment numbers. Probably
will just miss the um uh the inflation
numbers, but hopefully they'll have
another another round of inflation
numbers and then that'll that's really
what they should be looking at. Right
now it's really tough to tell um because
it really is down to well what are the
anecdotes? Um certainly we're starting
to see more anecdotal reports of layoffs
of job reduction. So that suggests that
that that trend that we were seeing from
the last data that official data that we
got may be continuing weakness in the
job in the job market.
>> Right. It doesn't seem though that we're
about to turn a sharp corner in the US
economy. The fact that there is
>> sure
>> healthy debate that you could make the
argument a strong argument either way.
>> U how low do you think rates can or
should get in this cycle?
>> Ah that's always the that's that's a
very important a very very important
issue. And so you know the Fed has moved
its its assessment of where that kind of
long run neutral rate would be you know
when it's neither expansionary nor
contractionary. And so, um, I think they
think that, uh, well, there's obviously
a difference of opinion from the, uh,
uh, from the, uh, reports that they they
put out, but I would say sort of it'll
get into the, um, uh, low to mid-3s is
kind of probably where they would, uh,
would end up, but that's really
dependent on so many different factors
that we just don't have the data on now,
>> right? the issue of Fed independence,
where is your head at that at the moment
just given how you've seen voting of
course taking place and where do you
think that conversation goes?
>> So I think the Fed is still doing what
it thinks is right. I think J Pal is in
charge economy.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And thinks and I think
J Pal's clearly in charge. I mean
obviously in this most recent uh round
you had a descent on uh on both sides.
One who wanted to raise rates or sorry
keep keep rates steady. Another who
wanted to cut rates more.
>> I think that's perfectly reasonable. I
think that's healthy to have um people
have expressed their different different
points of view. Um but I think you know
Jay's still running it as calling it as
he sees it and I think it was reasonable
for him to say I can't make any
commitments about December because I
don't have any data.
>> Okay. Well, that's fair unless he's he's
going on vibe, right? [laughter]
>> Okay. U the the there's been a
substantial amount of progress on
tariffs.
>> U but also we've had substantial amount
of tariffs already put in place. When do
you think do you think we'll get that
pass through as far as inflation goes or
do you think the companies will take
that hit?
>> Well, see it's just um even even if you
had a full 20% increase in in tariffs,
>> right?
>> Imports are only 14% of US GDP.
>> Okay.
>> So 20% of 14% is 2.8%. So assuming that
no one shifts to cheaper products, which
of course people do, the maximum impact
is going to be 2.8% on the level. And I
and you know we're not seeing a trade
war breakout. So that's sort of a
one-time one-off kind of thing. This is
something that Chris Waller, one of the
governors, has been talking about for a
long time. I've been talking about this
since the beginning of the year. And and
so that's why I don't think that the
tariffs in and of themselves are going
to have a very big long-term impact on
inflation. Certainly, we're seeing that,
you know, we had this glide path down.
Now it's kind of flattened out
[clears throat] because you're having
some impact of the tariffs, but not an
enormous impact.
>> I want to get your thoughts on this.
there's a extended pause between the
discussions with US and China. It looks
like they'll be revisiting that next
year and it's possible that they could
be doing this at a cadence of 12 months.
In other words, every 12 months we
negotiate terms. Do you think that adds
a level of uncertainty for businesses or
do you think this is the sort of best
new normal that we're going to get?
>> Well, I think obviously in in April um
markets were kind of freaked out about
what was going on with with respect to
tariffs and you know and dealing with a
lot of uncertainty. It now seems that
when there are different announcements,
sure uh there'll be some movement in the
markets, but they don't seem to be
nearly as uh as tumultuous as they they
were before. So, I think the market I
think business people are just getting
used to this kind of baseline level of
policy uncertainty being higher than it
was before, but it took a while for them
to get used to it.
>> Right. Since you're in this part of the
world, I want to get your thoughts on
the Chinese economy. Just a broad
question here. They've had some
challenges trying to get inflation up
and about.
>> Yes. Is there something that you think
they should be doing more of or
something new that they should be
endeavoring or do you think it's just a
matter have we just not waited long
enough I guess for for for things to
bear fruit?
>> Well, I think there are uncertainties
about the tariff impacts and trade
impacts on the Chinese economy. So, I
think there are a little bit of wait and
see mode to see how those those sorts of
things work out. There's obviously some
uncertainty about domestic demand,
although that seems to be coming coming
back a bit. And um I think they I think
the people's bank really hasn't changed
interest rates or reserve requirements
since May. And um so I think you know
they should be looking to see if we're
continuing to see some downward
pressure. Maybe they need to do do
further cuts. But right now the economy
seems to be okay and and so I think
they're kind of in a wait and see mode
part probably because of the uh uh the
trade issues.
>> Right. With with good reason. Randy,
it's very nice to see you have a great
rest of your trip here in Hong Kong.
Give your students a hard time please
for me. Right.
Okay, fantastic. Randy Crossson there,
former Fed governor. Of course, he's in
town here for the University of Chicago.
He has some some classes to get through
this. All right. Uh there's plenty more
here [music] on the China show. Market
update is coming through in a couple of
minutes. Good Monday morning to all of
you.
Right. Uh welcome back. Just very
[music] quickly, uh we're getting some
data coming through. This is the private
PMI survey. This is obviously for
October. Uh following the miss on the
official numbers. This one actually
coming in not as far from estimates, the
well the median estimate, but it's it's
worth pointing out there was no mode
given that there were individual
forecasts all over [music] the place.
50.7 is basically your the quote unquote
benchmark here. All right, we'll leave
that there for now. A brief look at some
of the [music] movers across these
markets. We're looking at autos coming
up on your screens. There we go. Not a
lot of movement there. Uh massive
trading debut [music] today, last week.
Check. 107%
on Mining Lamp Tech. That's the debut
here in Hong Kong. Oo, four percentage
[music] points better. And a look at the
B the benchmarks going into the first 25
minutes of trades. Uh volumes are
[music] largely on the lighter side of
things across the region. Japan cash
markets are of course shut for mix
across ANA shares. Plenty more ahead.
You're watching the China Show.
Welcome back to the China Show. If you
hear that getting loud, well, yeah, it's
going to get very loud the next few
[music] days here in Hong Kong. A busy
week of events here. We just came off.
I'm coming on the the plane in Busousan
and in Gyongju and South Korea after
those Trump talks and now we're talking
about really talking about the state of
financial markets and of course the
financial hub of Hong Kong here this
week, Dave. So certainly we're right
here live at the Hong Kong Exchange for
the Women Chief Executive Summit, the
inaugural event today. We're also be
going heading to fintech week there as
the things kick off there as well. Dave,
>> yeah, you have a lot of big uh yeah, big
conversations coming up in fact with
Ivon in a couple of minutes or Amy Lo
will be joining her uh there at the HKX
and then she hurries off from there to
the FinTech Summit. It's been about it's
been exactly a week since we launched
the new set. The only thing that so far
has not been a feature at the new set is
my co-anchor Ivon, who's been here for
about a day and then ditched us to do
other better things. But I promise you
maybe we'll get Ivonne back uh here on
set with us uh in in in a couple of
days. There we go. Uh not tomorrow
though because as Ivan is pointing out
there's another big event taking place.
It's the HKMA Financial Leader Summit
where, including myself, we'll be
ditching the set and headed to the the
world's number one hotel out of 22.
That's the Rosewood, of course, that's
where things are taking place tomorrow.
Anyway, uh let's have a look at where we
are marketwise. So, as we were pointing
out and Ivon was just mentioning there,
we're coming up low today on the Hen
Index. We're slightly higher there.
We're coming off quite some steep
declines on Friday. Uh two other market
stories today in the equity markets. One
is Korea and this massive K-pop we're
seeing there, pun intended, but also
quite literally because of what's taking
place in that space. Uh, and the
Philippines is off about 2%. Uh, we're
coming off lows of the session, but
massive gap lower there that could be
still down to this confidence crisis
around uh, what's been going on there
with the flood control projects. We'll
try and get figure out what's going on
there. But at these levels, we are at
risk of falling to the lowest levels
last seen during Rona. Okay. Uh let's
have a look at gold and gold uh related
stocks coming off and quite
substantially ah there we go everything
from miners uh to some of the jewelers a
lot of the ETFs following the rebates uh
China ending the tax rebate on gold uh
so it's playing out across these markets
and casinos are going the opposite way
following some decent numbers coming out
of Macau above expectations and casinos
last we checked are actually doing very
very well in the first session with the
exception of Galaxy which is coming off
but yeah Some of these names are also
punching above the benchmark today.
Ivonne,
>> yeah, let's continue our coverage here
at the inaugural women's chief executive
summit here in Hong Kong and we're
talking about little wealth management,
the like, private wealth. It's quite
interesting as well. Our very own Charie
Wong from Liberal Intelligence was
crunching the numbers and they're
talking about private wealth under
management could nearly double to 2.6
trillion by 2031. And Hong Kong could
actually surpass the likes of
Switzerland in being the global crossber
center this year. Let's bring in Amy
Low. She knows a little bit more about
that. She is the UBS global wealth
management Asia chairman. She's also the
UBS Hong Kong head and chief executive.
She's also a co-organizer of WCE. So you
wear many many hats, Amy. Thank you so
much for joining us.
>> Oh, thank you so much for having me.
>> Yeah. Let's talk a little bit more about
inflows, right? Asia pack was very
strong in in the third quarter. How much
was that contributed by Hong Kong and
China? Oh actually we had uh if you look
at the third quarter result announcement
we have a very strong quarter uh
globally we surpassed the 6.9 trillion
dollars as you said Asia-Pacific is a
main what is one of the main contributor
we surpassed at the group level uh for
Asia Pacific 1 trillion asset and for
wealth management is over $870 billion
and the net new asset is $37 billion.
Wow.
>> So, a very strong inflow.
>> How much did that come from the mainland
side of the business?
>> It it's um quite diverse um from
different parts of um the Asia-Pacific
region. Obviously, China remains to be
the fastest growth region and the wealth
creation region as well.
>> Yeah. I mean certainly the Chinese
market this stock rally has been a
standout this year. Are your clients
still willing to you know raise their
exposure in in this market still?
Definitely because other than the AUM,
we also have a record trading volume and
as a result also record trading kind of
revenue as well and I think obviously
with the capital market activity picking
up. We have also seen the sentiment
change and clients want to further
increase the allocation to both China as
well as US and that also synchronize and
echoes very well our CIO view
geographically. We like China and also
uh US US because you know with the red
card and also the AI topic and also the
uh announcement the result announcement
so far has been quite positive and China
obviously uh is driven by the tax
sector. So we have seen increasing
interest uh in also allocating more into
the Asia-Pacific region.
>> What sort of risk tolerance do clients
have now? I mean after we've already
seen records hitting a lot of equity
markets the ones that you just
highlighted there as well are they
willing to lean more into risk and what
asset classes
>> yeah if we talk to a client obviously um
diversification is the key and how you
diversify across the different asset
classes jurisdiction and that's the
reason why in addition to the trading
kind of activity they are also
interested in alternative gold remain to
be also one of the very popular asset
Yeah. Is that still a defensive sort of
play or do you think I mean it seems
sometimes gold acts as a risky asset
these days too. Now
>> I I think it's a little bit different
because uh now they use it as also a
diversifier
uh into the different asset classes
>> and so they also take the advantage of
the correction to also add in some of
the gold position
>> and the central banks are still buying
gold.
>> Yeah. Um when it comes to the momentum
though, do you see signs that this the
strong inflow can continue in terms of
sustainability of it all or do you think
that there's some sort of let up in
sign?
>> Oh, if you look at uh SFC number, they
just also announced the number for Hong
Kong, we have also seen the AUM growth
last year 13%.
>> And if you look at the net inflow, it
surged by 81%.
So we have seen also strong inflow into
the Hong Kong both asset and wealth
management and you know I chair the Hong
Kong private wealth management
association. The fact that we have also
50% growth in our corporate membership
>> speak for it for itself.
>> Sounds like you need more people. Are
you looking to to to hire more people uh
when it comes to catering to that whole
sort of wealth that you're seeing in
Hong Kong and mainland China too? We
we've been hiring and uh
our gap and also the board were in Hong
Kong and certainly they were very
impressed by the franchise that we have
built and obviously we will continue to
hire strategically out in the region.
>> How much could He count grow you think
in the region now?
>> I think just for Hong Kong we hire over
50 uh bankers for this year so far. Do
you have any targets in terms of what
>> we will continue as I said we will
continue to hire strategically.
>> Um I was going to ask you a little bit
more about Singapore too because UBS
obviously uh was among some of those
banks that got caught in this money
laundering scandal a few years ago.
What's the bank doing to really
streamline this whole process of vetting
for new clients now as you move forward
from this? Oh, I I think for us in Asia
Pacific, Hong, both Hong Kong and
Singapore are important hubs and um
obviously we also comply with all the
kind of on boarding requirement, the due
diligence no matter in Hong Kong,
Singapore or in any other location in
the Asia-Pacific region. And I think
that's also the reason why we have to
leverage on AI and technology to
[clears throat] streamline some of this
on boarding and doing due diligence. And
it have been working on very well
because at UBS we also build the AI
factory to make on boarding investment
suitability and also the client
conversational insights more seamless.
>> Yeah. I has it hurt the whole reputation
of Singapore as a safe place for for you
know Chinese wealth to park at. Do you
think that sort of image has has changed
or lost a bit of its shine here or do
you still see new wealth coming to to
the city there? As I said, Hong Kong,
both Hong Kong and Singapore are
important hub and we have also seen both
growth in Hong Kong and Singapore plus
other other geographic other Asian
market because other than Hong Kong and
Singapore we are also growing some of
the established market like Japan,
Australia, Taiwan because Taiwan you
know they have also piloted the Gaus as
a wealth management hub and that's
exciting this whole new uh actually
another um we have also a very strong
Asia-Pacific uh team wealth management
team in Switzerland and uh we have also
seen a very very strong kind of growth
out there as well. So as I said clients
are also looking for diversification. is
how are we going to use Hong Kong and
Singapore as the important hub and then
continue to grow the established market
Japan uh Australia and also Taiwan and
Sen being our hometown home market and
also growing the long-term market like
China India I was going to ask you about
Taiwan I was just there and there's so
much potential they talk about it
becoming now given all these tech
companies that have basically
accumulated a lot of wealth and they
want to keep it on shore
But there's higher taxes there. It might
be hard to retain talent because you
know salaries are not as competitive to
Hong Kong and Singapore. What do you
think is sort of the potential for
Taiwan to be that sort of wealth?
>> Yeah, as I said, while they are now
piloting the asset and wealth management
hub in Gong, I think that's a very
positive sign. So talking to some of our
stakeholders and and different partners
like some of the asset and wealth
management players, they are also
considering increasing their their kind
of
>> Are you putting more people in in
Taiwan? We we have a strong team in in
Taiwan because in addition to the
international market, we also have a
strong team, domestic wealth management
team down in Taiwan and and certainly we
will expand uh in Taiwan.
>> Okay. I was going to ask you since
you're the co-organiz you said this is
your baby this event [laughter] the WCE
tell us a bit more about I mean this the
survey right 45% of top financial roles
in the industry are going to women
>> why Hong Kong and why such a high number
I mean it certainly is a a bit of a
milestone if you look at the results uh
primarily the respondents were telling
us it's because of the safety in Hong
Kong uh the education as well as the
culture that encouraged them to lead and
also be inspired. And I think the
diversity here is not false, but it's
organic
>> and uh having such a strong powerful
woman network over 60 women
collaborating together to really drive
the advocacy and also we mentor a lot of
the young talent. I think that's the
kind of culture we have built that make
it so strong.
>> What's the next thing you still want to
conquer then
>> when it comes to diversity? I think it
you we are still also uh encouraging and
promoting public and private leadership
uh in this space and how we can really
position Hong Kong as the global
benchmark for gender diverse kind of
financial center.
>> I was going to say it's a big week for
Hong Kong. We were talking about all the
events happening here.
>> Does this this week feel a bit different
from from previous years? I mean this
whole resurgence in Hong Kong do do you
see it can continue?
>> Oh yeah, definitely. because uh this
week uh you have the fintech, then the
Hong Kong MA leaders summit and uh the
private wealth management association
summit. We also will be welcoming 1,200
participant from all over the world to
Hong Kong.
>> So I'm sure the momentum will continue
and Hong Kong is a capital market hub.
The fact that we have 300 company lining
up to list and that's exciting and I
think the numbers speak for itself.
That's why I I told you we have also
record kind of trading uh volume and
also the activity out here in Hong Kong.
Do you see a risk to this resurgence in
any in any
>> Oh, obviously uh the geopolitical
tension, the tariff, but I think it's in
the midst of all this geopolitical
tension and also the tariff, we still
have um such a strong kind of inflow,
>> the numbers before itself.
>> Amy, it's great to have you back.
>> Thank you so much, UBS Global Wealth
Management, Asia Chairman, and of
course, a UBS Hong Kong head and chief
executive joining us here at the WCE
event. And of course, if if you're a
subscriber and want to rewatch that
interview, you can watch through our
interactive TV function, TV go. You can
also become part of the conversation.
Send us in some messages or questions to
our guests throughout the shows. Check
it out [music] at TVGo.
Thank you.
>> Right. So, another big event here in
Hong Kong and we're live at day one of
Fintech Week and we'll be speaking
[music] exclusively with Fred who CEO of
private equity firm Primar Capital. In a
couple of minutes, we'll get his take
really on the meeting between President
Trump and President Xi as well as
China's recently concluded fourth
plenum. This is [music] the China show.
Good morning. Welcome back. You're
watching the China show, the Monday
edition. [music] And um yeah, well,
Fred, who will be joining us at those
times in case you missed the earlier
promo um cash markets, we don't have
Japan today. Uh so we're shut there, so
you don't have cash treasuries. Uh we do
have of course futures trading and um
fairly uneventful equity market session
with the exception of two markets. One
is Korea. We'll get to that in a moment.
The other one is the Philippines, which
is in fact the sell off there is just
getting worse as I speak. We'll have a
look at the Philippines later on. Uh in
the meantime, let's bring in Mark
Cranfield for some market context as far
as today's concerned. M Live strategist
out of Singapore. Mark, good morning.
Talk to us about Korea. What's what's uh
not that that's a new story in markets,
best performing market this year, but
what's going on today?
>> Yeah, good morning. Um yeah, who needs
who needs Japan when you've got the
Cosby firing away as as it is? I mean,
it's uh we just had a chart up on the
market side. you might be able to to see
it. We're we're even closing in on the
the rebound just after the COVID uh
crisis in 2020. I mean, that was a more
than 100% bottom to top gain for the for
the Cosby. They're up above 80% already
for this one. So, this is an
extraordinary performance since
Liberation Day in April when the markets
really tanked. And it we were joking
about it during the the break there, but
it's almost as though the whole Cosby
index has become an AI index. You've
even got companies like Hyundai, an old
school company. Even they are getting
involved in the AI boom with the help of
Nvidia. Of course, they've done signed a
deal with them to do some work on AI
related factories for mobility with the
Korean government. So, it seems to be
the whole country is encompassing the
whole the theme about AI which has been
driving equity markets for most of this
year and looks as though it's going to
continue to do so. Just anecdotally over
the weekend I was speaking to some
friends in the in the fund management
industry and they're all very concerned
they're in a bubble and they worried
about valuations but none of them are
selling their stocks. They're all
holding on. So it just gives you an
example that people yes they they see
some of these numbers they think they're
a bit ridiculous could be getting
overdone but nobody for the moment wants
to take the risk of being left out just
in case the markets go even further
between now and year end.
>> Yeah. the the difference between what
you think and what you do. I mean, I
mean, everyone,
almost everyone I know thinks that, you
know, that last shot of tequila at 3:00
a.m. is a bad idea, but, you know, most
people will still take that take that
last shot. Mark, the how do I look at
the strong dollar today, 3 days, you
know, are we done repricing this, you
know, the, you know, the December cut
around the Fed that it's probably not
going to happen? How do I need to be
thinking about that now this week?
Um I think that is picture is being
complicated simply by the yen. So the
the Fed story for December or not um is
going to play out really with the Fed
speaker. We're going to have a slew of
Fed speakers coming up in the next
couple of weeks. The now that they're
able to to talk freely again and you'll
probably see quite a few contradicting
the stance of Jerome Pal. The fact that
he pushed back on December is not going
to be what the all of the feds be.
You're going to have people like
Williams uh probably Waller as well. I
mean they're they're going to have their
own views and they're likely to be a lot
more doubbish than you heard from Jerome
Pal. So in terms of what we we see for
December, there's going to be a lot of
two and fro between now and there plenty
of time to repric between now and and
the December meeting. On the other side,
you've very much got a a yen story which
is not going to go away for some time
yet. The fact that the dollar yen is
continuing to climb, we're getting it
towards territory where the Japanese
authorities will get more concerned. But
if you look at where we've where we've
been, we almost reached 159 at the
beginning of the year. That's a
possibility for intervention, but more
likely they're going to wait until 160
plus simply because for the moment the
Bank of Japan is not doing its part.
This is a two-sided equation for the
Japanese yen to stabilize, maybe even to
get stronger. The Ministry of Finance
and the Bank of Japan need to be on the
same page. They need to be working
together. That's what we've seen in the
past. that can change the direction of
the currency when they're both working
to support that. That is not the case
right now. And the Bank of Japan really
dropped the ball last week. They had an
opportunity to set up December for an
interest rate hike. They did not do so.
Market is very skeptical that they even
going to be able to raise interest rates
until well into 2026. That's really not
helpful for the Japanese currency, which
is already suffering because of
seriously big negative real interest
rates. It's one of the worst cases among
the G10 countries and because of that
the yen becomes a funding currency
again. So the story for the yen will
help to support the US dollar by product
of the fact that people see a a fairly
directional move there and so of course
they they won't want to short the dollar
too much against other currencies as
long as the yen is heading in one
direction.
>> Mark, just a final quick quick thought
on gold and you know the headline China
ending its you know tax rebate for
[clears throat]
some retailers. It's obviously causing
some equity market declines uh in the
onshore space, but how do we need to be
thinking about that? Is there a day two
there or is that just just sort of bad
news as expected today?
>> Um is it's good for a knee-jerk reaction
um within the big scheme of things, it
doesn't really mean a great deal. Um
gold was coming off anyway. People who
wanted to short gold in the near term
probably using it as a good excuse, but
in terms of the the big picture where
central banks are buying, whether
there's long-term retail investing, all
of those things will be in place. But
for the in the very near term, of
course, gold was getting very
overextended and it's not surprising
that it's selling off a little bit.
>> Mark, thank you, sir. Mark Cranfield in
Singapore for us. Just a note on these
markets in Manila. So, we're barely an
hour into the session. Man, what a
session that's been uh so far here, as
you can see over my right shoulder. So,
we're down about 2.3 now. We we were
coming off lows at one point about 15
minutes ago and have since reacelerated
that drop here. We're now at the lowest
since 2022 and we're very close now to
taking out the low that we hit back that
year. Below that, we're back to levels
last seen during the depths of the
pandemic back in 2020. Quick glance at
the biggest movers there. Everything
with the I think with the exception of
one or two major constituents and the
Philippine Composite are down and just
some of the big names there. Everything
from San Miguel to BDO Uni Bank. Plenty
morehead. This is the China show. Good
morning.
Right, welcome back. In some uh
corporate news we're tracking this
morning, the US says Beijing will take
steps to [music] allow the Chinese
facilities of chipmaker and Xperia to
resume shipments. That's confirming a
Bloomberg reports [music] from a day
earlier that the company is a Dutch
semiconductor firm with facilities in
China and the move is [music] expected
to ease worries among auto manufacturers
over in Europe. Now, the uh Australian
lender Westpak [music] reported profit
in line with estimates. That's thanks to
growth in mortgages and also some loans
uh to businesses. CEO Anthony [music]
Miller has worked to overhaul the lender
since taking over back in December. now
reshuffling senior management and
cutting jobs to reduce [music] costs.
Now, Westpak also sold its Rams mortgage
portfolio to a group including KKR
Ammude Miller says [music] further
simplifies
the back. Now, uh Berkshire Hathaway
massive one over the weekend cash pile
surging to get this we're nearing that
400 billion mark, aren't we? $382
[music]
billion. That's the latest quarter as
earnings also jumped at uh of course
[music] the conglomerate of the Oracle
from Omaha. Uh the firm's cash grew as
uh [music] Mr. Buffett there avoided
deals during the quarter. We all talked
about valuations [music] being on the
heftier side of things. The insurance
underwriting profit more than tripled.
Bergkshire [music] declined to buy back
shares for a fifth straight quarter and
the stock has tumbled almost 12% since
[music] of course Buffett said in May
that he would be stepping down, right?
Uh let's [music] stay on the earnings
theme. So we're I would say we're
wrapping up the bulk of earnings,
although the bulk of the big ones are
still ahead. So we're about 80% a little
over 80% through earning season. [music]
Mi China. You still have the reason I
alluded to the big ones. Of course, you
have the big tech names still on deck
the next few weeks or so. Uh so far,
it's been largely disappointing on both
revenues and [music] profits. Uh on deck
this week, you have Huah Hong Semi and
Yang China set to report earnings
[music] these next few days or so.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
Good morning. So, [music] this is the
time of the day when we should be
heading to the Japanese lunch break. Uh
things were on holiday over in Tokyo
for culture day. There we go. Um all
that is to say no cash markets, although
you do have some proxies. Of course,
futures contracts are uh trending to the
downside. We're not feeling the weak yen
effects. We could get that of course uh
later on in the week when things reopen.
And as you can see, dollar yen, in fact,
a better look at dollar yen right now.
All on a year-to- date basis. We're now
back to levels last seen in Feb. So, who
would have thought we back above 154,
the dollar strength that's come through
and the repricing around number one, the
Fed and literally the other side of that
exchange rate is the yen around the BOJ
and no guidance as far as December goes.
So we we're actually moving into the
situation where possible, maybe not
likely, but possibly the Fed and the BOJ
will no longer move for the year. There
we go. Dollar yen sitting at 154, lowest
level here since Feb. Let's get it back
now to this big event week here in Hong
Kong. You have fintech week for one and
our tech correspondent Annabelle is
there for us standing by with her next
guest. Bill,
>> thanks Dave. I'm joined this morning by
the group chairman and CEO of Brimma
Vera Capital. That's Fred who of course.
So Fred, great to great to see you again
on Bloomberg TV. Uh we can start I think
with US China. We'll get to to the tech
side, the fintech side in a moment, but
we did as well have the talks between
President Xi and Trump last week. So I'm
curious for your views on on the
outcomes from Busousan and and whether
you were encouraged at all by what we
heard. Well, I think the summit was
successful that uh both leaders have
been able to put the uh you know the two
rel the bilateral relationship back on
track with some stability and uh you
know preventing otherwise rare uh you
know disastrous outcome for both
countries and for the world economy uh
at the large. So I think the trade truth
uh reached by the two leaders by two
countries I think it's a really a great
uh reassurance uh for global markets and
for global economy.
>> How do you see it developing because
obviously there's there's big points of
contention between both sides. It's
difficult to really see how they'll be
able to see eye to eye on on areas for
instance like rare earths which remains
a big bargaining chip for China. What do
you think is the next step and and the
evolution of the relationship from here?
>> Well, I think you know just the
experience of last uh couple months you
know has told us like it or not the two
economies are still highly dependent on
each other and in fact the world economy
is still highly wide you know to be uh
interdep dependent. So if you want to
penalize a trading partner whether it's
by high t or export control yes you
exact cost on your uh partner but you
also you inflate a lot of harm to your
own economy like this whole uh you know
entanglement with the with this cheap
restriction or rare earth curb right why
you know told us very very clearly. So I
hopefully now with the truth in place
that give the uh time give the more uh
cool down emotion and the space for both
governments to really engage and step
back say you know where we want to uh
resolve some differences. Okay, some are
maybe longstanding but where we should
continue uh cooperation like trade or
investment or technology right because
essential for each country's own uh
economic possibility and also you know
given sheer size and the scale uh both
US China so the actions they take
against each other will have a global uh
ramifications you know so they need to
be also mindful of their global
responsibility to be sensible to be
reasonable right so so that's kind of my
hope
>> what about from the side of Beijing
because of course as I just said that
that big bargaining chip but their main
point of leverage is the rare earth
controls and those effectively remain in
place it's something that has caused a
lot of issues with other potential or
other trading partners like in Europe
for instance do you think that that
that's the right move to keep those
restrictions or does China also risk
being labeled essentially what it's
saying of the US that they're an
unreliable trading partner. No, I don't
think it's China's intention to have
worldwide uh control over uh real earth
given that the China's central role but
also you know the central role of real
earth in the global economy right I
think it's more like a messenger okay
because you know over the years
particularly later by Washington but
also European willingly participate in
this whole technology blockade uh
against China particularly with the
high-end semiconductors not only the
semiconductor per se but also the
equipment making semiconductors which is
up to the ASML right. So Europeans have
been cooperating with Washington in this
blockade. So China you know basically
say enough is enough we have guess what
we have some leverage too right you know
real earth is one of them so it's me
more like just in the wake of the summit
and the China want to send a messenger
okay to all parties involved so now with
the truth which between Washington and
Beijing I don't think you know any issue
sending the way between Brussels and the
Beijing I I believe is not intended you
know to uh you know harm European
multinationals businesses and also
obviously Australia and New Zealand you
know that's not the issue I think it's
more I would say this whole thing is
more about the US and China so and
hopefully now they realize each other
are still at the end of the day you know
divorce is a very mey custody outcome
let's find a way to uh live together do
trade with each other
>> how do you think uh China's economy is
holding up in this environment as well
what's your perspective on on what we're
seeing in terms of the economic data.
>> Well, in light of this um you know
escalation of trade war and also
technology financial war uh the you know
mountain uncertainty uh facing Chinese
uh businesses investors and even average
consumer actually uh Chinese economy has
been holding up surprisingly well you
know actually still quite resilient
against all odds. So this again just due
to the fact the Chinese economy is not a
small economy is very big very diverse
and also over the years you know the
whole economy become the more resilient
right so that's that's a reassuring but
um you know the key for China to be able
to sustainable in its economic growth is
uh get domestic act uh together you know
particularly uh you know domestic demand
you know private consumption China need
to get it right Right. And then
obviously continue innovation. So with
the very strong uh robust consumer
demand and with the continued strength
in innovation, Chinese economy will do
very well not only in the short term but
also in the med long term.
>> You're really on the messages of the
fourth plan because they were the two
big takeaways lifting consumerism and
then also pushing that self-reliancy or
self- resiliency in the tech sector. on
those opportunities though that we see
in tech in particular. Which sectors are
you most interested in in in China
today? Well um you know so China is not
just a one pony and tricker is like a US
China generally you know has become a
major global innovator across spectrum
AI like that's what all we are focused
on so China is u uh upcoming strong
leader with tremendous potential um
climate tech you know energy transition
so China again is the global leader in
renewable CV batteries and you know
nextg uh energy infrastructure. Uh then
third is automation and robotics. Uh you
know again sort of a lot exciting uh
really really I just I was just in
Shenzhen Guangjo over the weekend and
I've met a couple of founders and
they're doing really cool uh innovations
you know in robotics. So I think these
are three areas but you know by no means
are things are confined to the three
areas but these are obvious uh you know
areas China uh actually uh uh needs but
also there's a lot of momentum and
there's a lot of uh really high quality
companies thinking more broadly but but
about momentum the the momentum has been
very strong into AI across the board but
you're at the point where we've been of
course talking about the risk of an AI
bubble now for for weeks if not longer
months, but do you see that risk of an
AI bubble and and what would it be to
cause that bubble to burst or do you see
sort of a slow deflation instead? I
think you know it's understandable why
we all are so excited about the AI you
know the promise you know the
breakthroughs uh and the you know the
potential application across the w
source of the economy and the society
but we also you know have to learn from
history just because this is um you know
foundational new technology breakthrough
doesn't mean every trade will go into
the sky right so uh you know clearly
right now there's just so much A door
you know blindly chasen uh AI
opportunity and the valuation in some
cases are really decent high so we have
to be uh somewhat co-headed right so you
know you know we have to remind
ourselves uh the last com bubble yes
internet you know is a real revolution
but many com companies actually went
bust
>> all right well Fred thanks very much for
joining us this morning Dave that was
Fred who there the group chairman and
CEO of Primava Capital talking to us uh
from down at the Hong Kong Fintech week
10th anniversary festival as well.
>> It's already been 10. Wow. Okay. Uh
Belle, extremely busy there on the
ground. Ivonne will be joining her
shortly as well in a couple of hours
when she's done with her other big event
taking place. If you missed all of those
conversations coming up, whether that's
Belle, the ones we've had here in the
studio, where Ivonne is, of course, at
the exchange, you can check out TV go
for a Bloomberg client. Uh yeah, scroll
back. Uh, of course, just have a look at
uh what you might have missed and what
you want to catch up on. Of course, this
one was the one we just took place here
with with with Annabelle there with Fred
who at uh at the fintech week taking
place here in Hong Kong. Right. Uh an
update from Pony AI um is said to be
pricing so based on our sourcing the
company said to be pricing its listing
here in Hong Kong. It's debuting this
week at
139 Hong Kong dollars a pop. This is one
of many big names that are set to debut
here this week. In fact, if you're
curious what that list looks like, you
have this massive debut today, 108% last
week, 110% on Mining Lamp or Meaning
Lamp. Um Sarah's groups on Wednesday and
of course we talked about Pony AI that
is towards the back end of this week. So
in other words, we'll yeah, we got you
guys covered as far as his story [music]
is concerned. Plenty more ahead.
They understand what's going to happen.
And uh he has openly said and his people
have openly said at meetings, we would
never do anything while President Trump
is president because they know the
consequences.
>> That was President Trump talking about
Taiwan in that interview aired by CBS
News on Sunday. Now, speaking of Taiwan,
uh on shows today, David Lee Quay, a
former PBOC adviser, in fact, talked
about the possibility that that might
actually come up uh in the foreseeable
future. Have a look.
>> Fundamentally, the most important
progress for both sides is for the US to
recognize China as a equal peer, okay?
As a equal partner. on the issue of
Taiwan streets. This is by far the most
important issue or biggest concern of
the Chinese side. So uh I think is it is
not it is not unrealistic that under
President Trump the US administration
and as well as the you the whole US
capital hail make some new rhetoric
about the Taiwan accession s uh s
succession issue which is the big
concern of the Beijing side and in
return the Beijing side will cooperate
with the US on the issues of Ukraine
will agree to be more proactive in
pushing Russia.
>> Yeah, that certainly throws a story
forward. Following the agreement on
several uh key issues uh going into the
weekend, the White House in fact says
China will effectively suspend the
implementation of additional export
controls on rare earth metals and also
terminate investigations targeting US
companies in the semiconductor supply
chain. Midman Low, our China
correspondent is here. Uh we're getting
more details Midman on what the two
sides agreed on based on this sort of I
think it's a fact fact sheets coming out
of the White House.
>> Yeah. A fact sheet from the White House
saying um we're listing all the things
that the two sides agreed on. And of
course there are the lower hanging
fruits like fentinil like soybean
purchases um like the shipping levies
that were reached uh but also I think
the biggest win for the US this round is
really the roll back of the the export
controls from China by at least a year.
And we're talking about not just the
actions that they had imposed starting
from October this year, but also the
ones imposed in April this year and in
October of 2022. So what this means is
that general licenses will now be issued
for rare earths, for the likes of
graphite, antimony, um, gallium,
germananium and the like. So it's a
major victory for US national security.
China also agreeing to end those
investigations into US chips firms like
Nvidia uh and Qualcomm and also agreeing
to facilitate the resumption of
shipments from the Chinese unit of
Nexperia. That's a Dutch firm that was
seized by the Dutch government because
of the expansion of US entity list
rules. But this is where there has been
a little bit of divergence. The Chinese
commerce ministry released a statement
specifically about Nexperia saying that
this uh disruption to supply chain was
caused by the inappropriate intervention
of the Dutch government into the
internal affairs of a company. And so
China says it will monitor the situation
and assess the situation uh and loosen
those controls accordingly. But as David
Lee said, it seems like he is pretty
hopeful that some of the more
longerstanding issues could be discussed
in future talks.
>> Yeah. W with within reach. Now M the the
Chinese side also met with their hosts
of course the president out of Korea.
What what what took place there? What
was achieved between
>> and that's a very important meeting
because it's uh President C's first trip
to South Korea in 11 years and the first
meeting between the two presidents uh
and President E was saying that this is
a reset of relations. President C saying
that China is willing to deepen
cooperation with South Korea. And of
course this is coming as President E has
been taking quite a different stance
from his predecessor um Yun Yiel right
who has been leaning more towards US and
Japan to counter China. But President E
has been taking a more restrained and
more balanced stance. And one of the
things that two sides discussed was the
expansion of cultural ties. And this is
a very interesting clip because here you
can see the two sides sharing a laugh.
uh presidency was basically introducing
some of the gifts that he's sharing with
South Korea and on the table you can see
two boxes of Xiaomi phones and uh
President
>> Oh, there they are. Okay.
>> And President President E asked him
should he be concerned about security
issues with the phones and presidency
said well check it for any back doors
>> and you can see them uh sharing a laugh
over that. But the big outcome here is
really the expansion of cultural ties.
Because remember that South Korea has
been facing this uh informal ban in
China since nearly a decade ago when
South Korea started hosting the US
nuclear missile system which China sees
as a threat. And according to a South
Korean lawmaker, President appeared open
to the idea of hosting a K-pop concert
in Beijing and even asking the uh
foreign minister Wangi to follow up on
this. But the presidential commission of
Korea is saying that these are, you
know, comments, casual comments and
diplomatic meeting. Don't take it too
seriously. So, we'll have to see whether
it really leads to more loosening of the
rules when it comes to K-pop in China.
>> Yeah. Well, I guess you'll need to catch
Blackpink. I think they're coming to
Hong Kong. Uh, is my understanding. You
don't know anything about that? No.
>> No. I'm not a Blackpink fan.
>> Okay. Ape 2026 is going to be held in
Shenzhen, I believe. Yes, that's right.
Yes. Yeah. There we go. So, something to
look forward to if not Blackpink. There
we go. Minimlo, our China correspondent
there. Okay. Um Ooh. All right. I just
saw something. We might tell you about
it in a moment. Uh let in the meantime
though, let's get to some other world
news we're tracking this morning. Uh US
Defense Secretary uh Pete Hexath has
called on Southeast Asian nations to
strengthen cooperation and [music]
counter Chinese aggression in the South
China Sea Sea. Speaking at a meeting of
AANA defense [music] ministers in
Malaysia, Hexath urged the group to
develop joint capabilities to address
[music] threats. Now, he also raised
concerns about China's naval activity
around Taiwan during a meeting with his
Chinese [music] counterpart, Dong Jun.
>> That China's behavior toward its
neighbors and the world is a wakeup
call, which it is. share examples of
intimidation, harassment, and illegal
activities occurring within your
sovereign waters and across [music] the
South China Sea. Unfortunately, in the
months since then, China's destabilizing
actions have only been
China has criticized Japanese Prime
[music] Minister Sai Takichi for meeting
with Taiwanese officials on the
sidelines of the Apex summit that
[music] recently took place in South
Korea. Now Takayichi posted on X about
her dialogue with Taiwan's presidential
adviser last week and [music] said that
she looks forward to deepening
cooperation with Taipei. China for its
[music] part called Takayichi's actions
egregious and accused her of hyping the
meeting on social media. Lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Before we wrap up our coverage
today, here's a insider look at what
happened this morning. [music] So, it's
generally a quiet session. As we were
prepping the show today, this statement
came out out of New World and it sort of
had us semi-crambling to figure out what
was going on. Uh our understanding is
New World Development based on that
exchange filing says it's issuing now
close to 2 billion dollars in securities
and notes as it seeks to improve its its
debt profile. For more details and maybe
the reasoning behind this, Trista Law,
our China credit reporter, is here with
us to just help us understand. So what
what are they doing exactly and why are
they doing it? Well, it's definitely
they try to, you know, improve his
liquidity and try to u strengthen his
financial position, right? And with this
uh exchange offer, um they will offer um
one up to, you know, 1.9 billion notes
for as an exchange for the existing
notes. Okay. So um you know um that's
why um you know the the bond holders
it's their time to reset process this
plan whether they should you know
accepts it and analysts are telling us
the plan is actually decent but the
company's asking the bond holder to
fulfilling
so which are you know uh disappointed
somehow and uh analysts are also telling
us is could be the purpose of this plan
could be also to reduce the book value
of debt and then later on the company
can also coming back to regroup the uh
bond holder classes and try to rule out
another u debt restructuring more
holistic one that restructuring plan.
>> Okay. So this is just one of the steps
of potentially many more in the future
along those lines. Can I just ask you
what's happening with bonds of van
because I think we're seeing some
substantial declines there.
>> Yeah. So uh over the weekend we saw a
filing about uh Vankey's uh biggest
shareholder match is asking Vankei to
provide a collateral for its unsecure
loan. That loan could be over 20 billion
yen. So it's the first time they are
asking for those collateral and um uh
the shareholder also said if Veni failed
to comply with that they have the right
to demand uh the repayment. So that's
why we saw Vankey's bond plunge a lot. I
think investors are uh processing it
whether it's a shift for uh Shindra
Metro's attitude about their support to
Vani.
>> Okay Trista fantastic thank you so much
Trista Lua there our credit card
reporter on the two stories today on New
World and also on uh yeah the big
developer. Okay uh let me just be very
careful in how I phrase this just to
avoid speculating. So we don't know a
lot about this next line that's about to
flash in your screens. TSMC plans to
raise prices by up to 10% next year.
That's according to a report and we're
trying to still ascertain the details of
uh that as things stand. We're not
really seeing any if at all market
reaction to that. We'll get you more
details once they do more become more
clear as far as this is concerned. Okay.
Uh before we wrap things up, a look at
China AI applications here on the back
of this massive move up. visual [music]
channel. One of the best performing
stocks here by the way on the back of
his tech pledge. Uh gold stocks are on
offer following the gold news on the
weekend. The tax rebates and casinos
also coming up on your [music] screens.
Having a very good session here today.
Plenty more ahead here on Bloomberg
television.